Prepare releasenotes for Istio 1.25 (#16257)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.25.x/announcing-1.25/change-notes/index.md

---
title: Istio 1.25.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.25.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.25.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2025-02-28
release: 1.25.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.25.0
---

## Deprecation Notices

These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/docs/releases/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definition). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

- **Deprecated** use of `ISTIO_META_DNS_AUTO_ALLOCATE` in `proxyMetadata` in favor of a newer version of [DNS Auto Allocation](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/dns-proxy #dns-auto-allocation-v2). New users of Istio IP `auto-allocation` should adopt the new status based controller. Existing users may continue to use the older implementation.

>   ([Issue #53596](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53596))
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ([Issue #53596](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53596))

- **Deprecated** `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces`, in favor of `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces`.
  ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))

```

  This enables the DNS proxying for workloads in ambient mesh by default, improving security, performance, and enabling
  a number of features. This can be disabled explicitly or with `compatibilityVersion=1.24`.
  Note: only new pods will have DNS enabled. To enable for existing pods, pods must be manually restarted, or the iptables reconciliation feature must be enabled with `--set cni.ambient.reconcileIptablesOnStartup=false`.

- **Promoted** the `PILOT_ENABLE_IP_AUTOALLOCATE` value to default to `true`.
  This enables the new iteration of [IP auto-allocation](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/dns-proxy/#address-auto-allocation),
  fixing long-standing issues around allocation instability, ambient support, and increased visibility.
  `ServiceEntry` objects without `spec.address` set will now see a new field, `status.addresses`, automatically set.
  Note: these will not be used unless proxies are configured to do DNS proxying, which remains off-by-default.

- **Updated** the `PILOT_SEND_UNHEALTHY_ENDPOINTS` feature (which is off by default) to not include terminating endpoints.
  This ensures a service is not considered unhealthy during scale down or rollout events.

> - **Updated** DNS proxying algorithm to randomly select which upstreams to forward DNS requests to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Updated** DNS proxying algorithm to randomly select which upstream to forward DNS requests to.
```

  ([Issue #53414](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53414))

- **Added** new istiod environment variable `PILOT_DNS_JITTER_DURATION` that sets jitter for periodic DNS resolution.
  See `dns_jitter` in `https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/cluster/v3/cluster.proto`.
  ([Issue #52877](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52877))

> - **Added** Added `ObservedGeneration` to Ambient status conditions. This field will show the generation of the object that was observed by the controller when the condition was generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** `ObservedGeneration` to ambient status conditions. This field will show the generation of the object that was observed by the controller when the condition was generated.
```

  ([Issue #53331](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53331))

> - **Added** Istiod environment variable `PILOT_DNS_CARES_UDP_MAX_QUERIES` that controls the `udp_max_queries` field of Envoy's default Cares DNS resolver.
> This value defaults to 100 when unset.
> For more information, see [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/network/dns_resolver/cares/v3/cares_dns_resolver.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-network-dns-resolver-cares-v3-caresdnsresolverconfig-udp-max-queries)
>   ([Issue #53577](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53577))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** Istiod environment variable `PILOT_DNS_CARES_UDP_MAX_QUERIES` that controls the `udp_max_queries` field of Envoy's default Cares DNS resolver. This value defaults to 100 when unset.
  For more information, see [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/network/dns_resolver/cares/v3/cares_dns_resolver.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-network-dns-resolver-cares-v3-caresdnsresolverconfig-udp-max-queries)
  ([Issue #53577](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53577))
```

- **Added** Support for reconciling in-pod iptables rules of existing ambient pods from the previous version on `istio-cni` upgrade. Feature can be toggled with `--set cni.ambient.reconcileIptablesOnStartup=true` and will be enabled by default in future releases.
  ([Issue #1360](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/1360))

> - **Added** `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces` annotation, a comma separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic will be unconditionally treated as outbound. This allows workloads using virtual networking (KubeVirt, VMs, docker-in-docker, etc) to function correctly with both sidecar and ambient mesh traffic capture.
> **Deprecated** `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces`, in favor of `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces`
>   ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces` annotation, a comma separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic will be unconditionally treated as outbound. This allows workloads using virtual networking (KubeVirt, VMs, docker-in-docker, etc) to function correctly with both sidecar and ambient mesh traffic capture.
```

> - **Added** support for attaching policy defaults for istio-waypoint by targeting the GatewayClass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for attaching policy defaults for istio-waypoint by targeting the `GatewayClass`.
```

This pod-level annotation, if present on a pod, will override the global `istio-cni` `AMBIENT_DNS_CAPTURE` setting, which as of 1.25 defaults to `true`.
Note that setting this to `false` will break some Istio features, such as ServiceEntries and egress waypoints, but may be desirable for workloads that interact poorly with DNS proxies.
  ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))

- **Added** support for configuring the `istio.io/ingress-use-waypoint` label at the namespace level.

- **Added** support to preserve the original case of HTTP/1.x headers.  ([Issue #53680](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53680))

- **Added** support for the `Service.spec.trafficDistribution` field and `networking.istio.io/traffic-distribution` annotation, allowing a simpler mechanism to make traffic prefer geographically close endpoints.
Note: this feature previously existed only for ztunnel, but is now supported across all data planes.

- **Fixed** a bug with mixed cases Hosts in Gateway and TLS redirect results in stale RDS.  ([Issue #49638](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49638))

> - **Fixed** an issue where an HTTPRoute in a VirtualService with a matcher specifying `sourceLabels` would be applied to a waypoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where an `HTTPRoute` in a `VirtualService` with a matcher specifying `sourceLabels` would be applied to a waypoint.
```

  ([Issue #51565](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51565))

> - **Fixed** an issue where if a Wasm image fetch fails, an allow all RBAC filter is used. Now if `failStrategy` is set to `FAIL_CLOSE`, a DENY-ALL RBAC filter will be used.  ([Issue #53279](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53279)),([Issue #23624](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23624))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where if a WASM image fetch fails, an allow all RBAC filter is used. Now if `failStrategy` is set to `FAIL_CLOSE`, a DENY-ALL RBAC filter will be used.  ([Issue #53279](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53279)),([Issue #23624](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23624))
```

- **Fixed** waypoint proxy to respect trust domain.

> - **Fixed** merging Duration with a EnvoyFilter can lead to all listeners associated attributes unexpectedly modified because all listeners share a same pointer typed `listener_filters_timeout`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where merging `Duration` in an `EnvoyFilter` could lead to all listeners associated attributes unexpectedly being modified because all listeners shared the same pointer type (`listener_filters_timeout`).
```

- **Fixed** errors being raised during cleanup of iptables rules that are conditional on the iptables configuration.

- **Fixed** DNS traffic (UDP and TCP) is now affected by traffic annotations like `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` and `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts`. Before, UDP/DNS traffic would uniquely ignore these traffic annotations, even if a DNS port was specified, because of the rule structure. The behavior change actually happened in the 1.23 release series, but was left out of the release notes for 1.23.
  ([Issue #53949](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53949))

> - **Fixed** an issue where istiod did not handle `RequestAuthentication` correctly for cross-namespace waypoint proxies  ([Issue #54051](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54051))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where istiod did not handle `RequestAuthentication` correctly for cross-namespace waypoint proxies.  ([Issue #54051](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54051))
```

- **Fixed** failed to patch managed gateway/waypoint deployment during upgrade to 1.24.
  ([Issue #54145](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54145))

- **Fixed** non-default revisions controlling gateways lacking istio.io/rev labels.
  ([Issue #54280](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54280))

- **Fixed** the wording of the status message when L7 rules are present in an AuthorizationPolicy which is bound to ztunnel to be clearer.
  ([Issue #54334](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54334))

- **Fixed** a bug where request mirror filter incorrectly computing the percentage.
  ([Issue #54357](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54357))

- **Fixed** an issue where using a tag in the istio.io/rev label on a gateway causes the gateway to be improperly programmed, and to lack status.
  ([Issue #54458](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54458))

> - **Fixed** issue where out-of-order ztunnel disconnects could put `istio-cni` in a state where it believes it has no connections.
>   ([Issue #54544](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54544)),([Issue #53843](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53843))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where out-of-order ztunnel disconnects could put `istio-cni` in a state where it believes it has no connections.
  ([Issue #54544](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54544)),([Issue #53843](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53843))
```

  ([Issue #54824](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54824))

- **Fixed** an issue where `ipset` entry creation would fail on certain kinds of Docker-based Kubernetes nodes
  ([Issue #53512](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53512))

- **Fixed** Helm render to properly apply annotations on pilot `serviceAccount`
  ([Issue #51289](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51289))

- **Fixed** a issue where `includeInboundPorts: ""` could not work when istio-CNI is enabled.
  ([Issue #54288](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54288))

- **Fixed** an issue where the CNI installation left temporary files when a container was repeatedly killed during the binary copy, which could have filled the storage space.
  ([Issue #54311](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54311))

- **Fixed** an issue in the gateway chart where `--set platform` worked but `--set global.platform` did not.

- **Fixed** an issue that `gateway` injection template didn't respect the `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-logs-container`
and `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-container` annotations.

> - **Fixed** an issue causing istio-iptables command to fail when a non-built-in table is present in the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue causing the `istio-iptables` command to fail when a non-built-in table is present in the system.
```

- **Fixed** Injection config errors were being silenced (i.e. logged and not returned) when the sidecar injector was unable to process the sidecar config. This change will now propagate the error to the user instead of continuing to process a faulty config.  ([Issue #53357](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53357))

## istioctl

- **Improved** output of `istioctl pc secret` to display trust bundles provided by SPIRE.

- **Added** shortcode `-r` for `--revision` flags in `istioctl analyze`.

- **Added** support for `AuthorizationPolicies` with `CUSTOM` action in the `istioct x authz check` command.

- **Added** support `--network` parameter for `istioctl experimental workload group create`.
  ([Issue #54022](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54022))

- **Added** Ability to safely restart/upgrade the system-node-critical `istio-cni` node agent DaemonSet in-place. This works by preventing new pods from starting on the node while `istio-cni` is being restarted or upgraded. This feature is enabled by default and can be disabled by setting the environment variable `AMBIENT_DISABLE_SAFE_UPGRADE=true` in `istio-cni`.
  ([Issue #49009](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49009))

> - **Added** changes for `rootca-compare` command to handle the case when pod has multiple root CA  ([Issue #54545](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54545))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** changes for `rootca-compare` command to handle the case when pod has multiple root CA.  ([Issue #54545](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54545))
```

- **Added** analyzer to report negative status conditions on select Istio and Kubernetes Gateway-API resources.
  ([Issue #55055](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/55055))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl install` deadlocks if multiple ingress gateways are specified in the IstioOperator file
  ([Issue #53875](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53875))

- **Fixed** `istioctl pc secret` performance issue.
  ([Issue #53931](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53931))

- **Fixed** `istioctl waypoint delete --all` deletes gateway resources that are not waypoints.
  ([Issue #54056](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54056))

- **Fixed** `istioctl experimental injector list` print redundant namespaces for injector webhook.

- **Fixed** `istioctl analyze` reporting `IST0145` errors when using the same host with different ports and multiple gateways.
  ([Issue #54643](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54643))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl --as` implicitly set `--as-group=""` when `--as` is used without `--as-group`.

- **Removed** `--recursive` flags and set recursion to true for `istioctl analyze`.

> - **Removed**  the experimental flag `--xds-via-agents` from the `istioctl proxy-status` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
title: Istio 1.25.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.25.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.25.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2025-02-27
release: 1.25.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.25.0
---

## Deprecation Notices

These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/docs/releases/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definition). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

- **Deprecated** use of `ISTIO_META_DNS_AUTO_ALLOCATE` in `proxyMetadata` in favor of a newer version of [DNS auto-allocation](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/dns-proxy#dns-auto-allocation-v2). New users of Istio IP auto-allocation should adopt the new status-based controller. Existing users may continue to use the older implementation.
  ([Issue #53596](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53596))

- **Deprecated** `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces`, in favor of `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces`.  See below for details.
  ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))

## Traffic Management

- **Promoted** the `cni.ambient.dnsCapture` value to default to `true`.
  This enables DNS proxying for workloads in ambient mesh by default, improving security, performance, and enabling
  a number of features. This can be disabled explicitly, or with `compatibilityVersion=1.24`.
  **Note:** only new pods will have DNS enabled. To enable for existing pods, pods must be manually restarted, or the iptables reconciliation feature must be enabled with `--set cni.ambient.reconcileIptablesOnStartup=false`.

- **Promoted** the `PILOT_ENABLE_IP_AUTOALLOCATE` value to default to `true`.
  This enables the new iteration of [IP auto-allocation](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/dns-proxy/#address-auto-allocation),
  fixing long-standing issues around allocation instability, ambient mode support, and increased visibility.
  `ServiceEntry` objects without `spec.address` set will now see a new field, `status.addresses`, automatically set.
  These will not be used unless proxies are configured to do DNS proxying, which remains off-by-default in sidecar mode.

- **Updated** the `PILOT_SEND_UNHEALTHY_ENDPOINTS` feature (which is off by default) to not include terminating endpoints.
  This ensures a service is not considered unhealthy during scale down or rollout events.

- **Updated** the DNS proxying algorithm to randomly select which upstreams to forward DNS requests to.
  ([Issue #53414](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53414))

- **Added** a new istiod environment variable `PILOT_DNS_JITTER_DURATION`, that sets jitter for periodic DNS resolution.
  See `dns_jitter` in `https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/cluster/v3/cluster.proto`.
  ([Issue #52877](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52877))

- **Added** the `ObservedGeneration` field to ambient mode status conditions. This will show the generation of the object that was observed by the controller when the condition was generated.
  ([Issue #53331](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53331))

- **Added** a new istiod environment variable `PILOT_DNS_CARES_UDP_MAX_QUERIES` that controls the `udp_max_queries` field of Envoy's default Cares DNS resolver.
  This value defaults to 100 when unset.
  For more information, see the [Envoy documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/network/dns_resolver/cares/v3/cares_dns_resolver.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-network-dns-resolver-cares-v3-caresdnsresolverconfig-udp-max-queries)
  ([Issue #53577](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53577))

- **Added** support for reconciling in-pod iptables rules of existing ambient mode pods from the previous version on `istio-cni` upgrade. This feature can be toggled with `--set cni.ambient.reconcileIptablesOnStartup=true` and will be enabled by default in future releases.
  ([Issue #1360](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/1360))

- **Added** the `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces` annotation, a comma-separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic will be unconditionally treated as outbound. This allows workloads using virtual networking (KubeVirt, VMs, docker-in-docker, etc) to function correctly with both sidecar and ambient mode traffic capture. `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces` has been deprecated in favor of `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces`.
  ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))

- **Added** support for attaching policy defaults for all Istio waypoints by targeting the GatewayClass.
  ([Issue #54696](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54696))

- **Added** the `ambient.istio.io/dns-capture` annotation. This may be unset, or set to `true` or `false`.
  When specified on a `Pod` enrolled in an ambient mesh, this controls whether DNS traffic (TCP and UDP on port 53) will be captured and proxied.
  This pod-level annotation, if present on a pod, will override the global `istio-cni` `AMBIENT_DNS_CAPTURE` setting, which as of 1.25 defaults to `true`.
  Note: setting this to `false` will break some Istio features, such as ServiceEntries and egress waypoints, but may be desirable for workloads that interact poorly with DNS proxies.
  ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))

- **Added** support for configuring the `istio.io/ingress-use-waypoint` label at the namespace level.

- **Added** the ability to preserve the original case of HTTP/1.x headers.  ([Issue #53680](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53680))

- **Added** support for the `Service.spec.trafficDistribution` field and `networking.istio.io/traffic-distribution` annotation,
  allowing a simpler mechanism to make traffic prefer geographically-close endpoints.
  Note: this feature previously existed only for ztunnel, but is now supported across all data planes.

- **Fixed** a bug where mixed-cased Hosts in Gateway and TLS redirects resulted in stale RDS.  ([Issue #49638](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49638))

- **Fixed** an issue where an HTTPRoute in a VirtualService with a matcher specifying `sourceLabels` would be applied to a waypoint.
  ([Issue #51565](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51565))

- **Fixed** an issue where if a Wasm image fetch fails, an allow-all RBAC filter was used. Now if `failStrategy` is set to `FAIL_CLOSE`, a deny-all filter will be used.  ([Issue #53279](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53279)),([Issue #23624](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23624))

- **Fixed** waypoint proxies to respect custom trust domains. ([Issue #53736](https://github.com/istio/istio/issue/53736))

- **Fixed** an issue where merging Duration with an EnvoyFilter could lead to all listeners associated attributes to unexpectedly be modified, because all listeners shared the same pointer typed `listener_filters_timeout`.

- **Fixed** an issue where errors were being raised during cleanup of iptables rules that were conditional.

- **Fixed** DNS traffic (UDP and TCP) to now be affected by traffic annotations like `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` and `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts`. Before, UDP/DNS traffic would uniquely ignore these traffic annotations, even if a DNS port was specified, because of the rule structure. This behavior change actually happened in the 1.23 release series, but was left out of the release notes for 1.23.
  ([Issue #53949](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53949))

- **Fixed** an issue where istiod did not handle `RequestAuthentication` correctly for cross-namespace waypoint proxies.
  ([Issue #54051](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54051))

- **Fixed** an issue that caused patches to a managed gateway/waypoint deployment to fail during upgrade to 1.24.
  ([Issue #54145](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54145))

- **Fixed** an issue where non-default revisions controlling gateways lacked `istio.io/rev` labels.
  ([Issue #54280](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54280))

- **Fixed** the wording of the status message when L7 rules are present in an `AuthorizationPolicy` which is bound to ztunnel, to be more clear.
  ([Issue #54334](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54334))

- **Fixed** a bug where the request mirror filter incorrectly computed the percentage.
  ([Issue #54357](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54357))

- **Fixed** an issue where using a tag in the `istio.io/rev` label on a gateway caused the gateway to be improperly programmed, and to lack status.
  ([Issue #54458](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54458))

- **Fixed** issue where out-of-order ztunnel disconnects could put `istio-cni` in a state where it believed it has no connections.
  ([Issue #54544](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54544)),([Issue #53843](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53843))

- **Fixed** excessive iptables info-level log entries for rule checks and deletions.
  Detailed logging can be re-enabled by switching to debug-level logs if necessary.
  ([Issue #54644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54644))

- **Fixed** an issue that caused `ExternalName` services to fail to resolve when using ambient mode and DNS proxying

- **Fixed** an issue causing configuration to be rejected when there was a partial overlap between IP addresses across multiple services.
  For example, a Service with `[IP-A]` and one with `[IP-B, IP-A]`.
  ([Issue #52847](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52847))

- **Fixed** an issue causing `VirtualService` header name validation to reject valid header names.

- **Fixed** an issue when upgrading waypoint proxies from Istio 1.23.x to Istio 1.24.x.
  ([Issue #53883](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53883))

## Security

- **Added** the `DAC_OVERRIDE` capability to the `istio-cni-node` DaemonSet. This fixes issues when running in environments
  where certain files are owned by non-root users.
  Note: prior to Istio 1.24, the `istio-cni-node` ran as `privileged`. Istio 1.24 removed this, but removed some required
  privileges which are now added back. Relatively to Istio 1.23, `istio-cni-node` still has fewer privileges than it does with this change.

- **Added** unconfined AppArmor annotation to the `istio-cni-node` DaemonSet to avoid conflicts with
  AppArmor profiles which block certain privileged pod capabilities. Previously, AppArmor
  (when enabled) was bypassed for the `istio-cni-node` DaemonSet since privileged was set to true
  in the `SecurityContext`. This change ensures that the AppArmor profile is set to unconfined
  for the `istio-cni-node` DaemonSet.

- **Fixed** an issue where Ambient `PeerAuthentication` policies were overly strict.
  ([Issue #53884](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53884))

- **Fixed** a possible race condition in JWK resolution cache for JWT policies that, when triggered, would cause
cache misses & failures to update signing keys when rotated
  ([Issue #52121](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52121))

- **Fixed** a bug in ambient mode (only) where multiple STRICT port-level mTLS rules in a PeerAuthentication policy would effectively result
in a permissive policy due to incorrect evaluation logic (`AND` vs. `OR`).
  ([Issue #54146](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54146))

- **Fixed** an issue where ingress gateways did not use WDS discovery to retrieve metadata for ambient destinations.

## Telemetry

- **Added** support for additional labels exchange for telemetry in sidecar mode.
  ([Issue #54000](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54000))

- **Added** a new `service.istio.io/workload-name` label that can be added to a `Pod` or `WorkloadEntry` to override the "workload name" reported in telemetry.

- **Added** a fallback to use the `WorkloadGroup` name as the "workload name" (as reported in telemetry) for `WorkloadEntry`s created by a `WorkloadGroup`.

- **Fixed** `$(HOST_IP)` interpolation causes istio-proxy failures when Datadog tracing enabled on IPv6 clusters.
  ([Issue #54267](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54267))

- **Fixed** an issue where access log order instability caused connection draining.
  ([Issue #54672](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54672))

- **Fixed** an issue where many panels in the Grafana dashboards showed **No data** if Prometheus had a scrape
  interval configured to be larger than `15s`.
 ([Background information]( https://grafana.com/blog/2020/09/28/new-in-grafana-7.2-__rate_interval-for-prometheus-rate-queries-that-just-work/))([Usage]( https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/using-istio-dashboard/))

- **Removed** OpenCensus support, as this is now removed from Envoy in favor of OpenTelemetry. [See the upgrade notes](../upgrade-notes/#opencensus-support-has-been-removed).

## Installation

- **Improved** Helm values overrides; both `platform` and `profile` values now equivalently support global or local override forms, e.g.
    - `--set global.platform=foo`
    - `--set global.profile=bar`
    - `--set platform=foo`
    - `--set profile=bar`

- **Improved** the ztunnel Helm chart to set resource names to `.Release.Name` instead of being hard-coded to `ztunnel`.

- **Added** new messages to the `WaypointBound` condition to represent a service binding to a waypoint proxy for ingress.

- **Fixed** an issue with `istioctl install` not working on Windows.

- **Added** a pod `dnsPolicy` of `ClusterFirstWithHostNet` to `istio-cni` when it runs with `hostNetwork=true` (i.e. in ambient mode).

- **Added** a GKE platform profile for ambient mode. When installing on GKE, use `--set global.platform=gke` (Helm) or `--set values.global.platform=gke` (istioctl) to apply GKE-specific value overrides. This replaces the previous GKE auto-detection based on K8S version used in the `istio-cni` chart.

- **Added** support for an Envoy config parameter to skip deprecated logs, with the default set to true. Setting the `ENVOY_SKIP_DEPRECATED_LOGS` environment variable to false will enable deprecated logs.

- **Added** ambient data plane exclusion labels to Istio-shipped gateways by default, to avoid out-of-the-box confusing behavior if installing gateways outside of `istio-system`.
  ([Issue #54824](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54824))

- **Fixed** an issue where `ipset` entry creation would fail on certain kinds of Docker-based Kubernetes nodes.
  ([Issue #53512](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53512))

- **Fixed** Helm rendering to properly apply annotations on pilot `serviceAccount`.
  ([Issue #51289](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51289))

- **Fixed** a issue where `includeInboundPorts: ""` was not working when the Istio CNI plugin is enabled.
  ([Issue #54288](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54288))

- **Fixed** an issue where the CNI installation left temporary files when a container was repeatedly killed during the binary copy, which could have filled the storage space.
  ([Issue #54311](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54311))

- **Fixed** an issue in the gateway chart where `--set platform` worked but `--set global.platform` did not.

- **Fixed** an issue where the `gateway` injection template did not respect the `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-logs-container`
  and `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-container` annotations.

- **Fixed** an issue causing the `istio-iptables` command to fail when a non-built-in table was present in the system.

- **Fixed** an issue preventing the `PodDisruptionBudget` `maxUnavailable` field from being customizable.
  ([Issue #54087](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54087))

- **Fixed** an issue where injection configuration errors were being silenced (i.e. logged and not returned) when the sidecar injector was unable to process the sidecar config. This change will now propagate the error to the user instead of continuing to process a faulty config.
  ([Issue #53357](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53357))

## istioctl

- **Improved** the output of `istioctl proxy-config secret` to display trust bundles provided by SPIRE.

- **Added** an alias `-r` for `--revision` flags in `istioctl analyze`.

- **Added** support for `AuthorizationPolicies` with `CUSTOM` action in the `istioctl x authz check` command.

- **Added** support for the `--network` parameter to the `istioctl experimental workload group create` command.
  ([Issue #54022](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54022))

- **Added** the ability to safely restart/upgrade the system-node-critical `istio-cni` node agent DaemonSet in-place. This works by preventing new pods from starting on the node while `istio-cni` is being restarted or upgraded. This feature is enabled by default and can be disabled by setting the environment variable `AMBIENT_DISABLE_SAFE_UPGRADE=true` in `istio-cni`.
  ([Issue #49009](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49009))

- **Added** changes for `rootca-compare` command to handle the case when pod has multiple root CA  ([Issue #54545](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54545))

- **Added** support for `istioctl waypoint delete` to delete specified revision waypoints.

- **Added** support for the analyzer to report negative status conditions on select Istio and Kubernetes Gateway API resources.
  ([Issue #55055](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/55055))

- **Improved** the performance of `istioctl proxy-config secret` and `istioctl proxy-config`.
  ([Issue #53931](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53931))

- **Fixed** an issue in the `rootca-compare` command to handle the case when a pod has multiple root CAs.
  ([Issue #54545](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54545))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl install` deadlocked if multiple ingress gateways are specified in the IstioOperator file.
  ([Issue #53875](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53875))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl waypoint delete --all` would delete all gateway resources, even non-waypoints.
  ([Issue #54056](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54056))

- **Fixed** `istioctl experimental injector list` printing redundant namespaces for injector webhook.

- **Fixed** `istioctl analyze` reporting `IST0145` errors when using the same host with different ports and multiple gateways.
  ([Issue #54643](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54643))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl --as` implicitly set `--as-group=""` when `--as` was used without `--as-group`.

- **Removed** `--recursive` flags and set recursion to true for `istioctl analyze`.

- **Removed** the experimental flag `--xds-via-agents` from the `istioctl proxy-status` command.
```

  ([Issue #53931](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53931))

- **Fixed** an issue in the `rootca-compare` command to handle the case when a pod has multiple root CAs.  ([Issue #54545](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54545))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl install` deadlocks if multiple ingress gateways are specified in the `IstioOperator` file.
  ([Issue #53875](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53875))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl waypoint delete --all` would delete all gateway resources, even non-waypoints.
  ([Issue #54056](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54056))

- **Fixed** the `istioctl experimental injector list` command to not print redundant namespaces for injector webhooks.

- **Fixed** `istioctl analyze` reporting `IST0145` errors when using the same host with different ports and multiple gateways.
  ([Issue #54643](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54643))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl --as` implicitly set `--as-group=""` when `--as` is used without `--as-group`.

- **Removed** `--recursive` flags and set recursion to true for `istioctl analyze`.

> - **Removed**  the experimental flag `--xds-via-agents` from the `istioctl proxy-status` command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Removed** the experimental flag `--xds-via-agents` from the `istioctl proxy-status` command.
```

---
title: Istio 1.25.0 Change Notes
linktitle: 1.25.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.25.0 release notes.

> publishdate: 2024-11-07

Reviewer: Just a reminder we'll need to edit this when we firm up our release date

Author: I have put this as 27-02 now...

  ([Issue #53596](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53596))

## Traffic Management

- **Promoted** the `cni.ambient.dnsCapture` value to default to `true`.
This enables the DNS proxying for workloads in ambient mesh by default, improving security, performance, and enabling
a number of features. This can be disabled explicitly or with `compatibilityVersion=1.24`.
Note: only new pods will have DNS enabled. To enable for existing pods, pods must be manually restarted, or the iptables reconcilation feature must be enabled with `--set cni.ambient.reconcileIptablesOnStartup=false`.

- **Promoted** the `PILOT_ENABLE_IP_AUTOALLOCATE` value to default to `true`.
This enables the new iteration of [IP auto-allocation](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/dns-proxy/#address-auto-allocation),
fixing long-standing issues around allocation instability, ambient support, and increased visibility.
`ServiceEntry` objects without `spec.address` set will now see a new field, `status.addresses`, automatically set.

> Note these will not be used unless proxies are configured to do DNS proxying, which remains off-by-default.

Reviewer 4: "**Promoted** the `cni.ambient.dnsCapture` value to default to `true`" means that for ztunnel dnsCaprure will work out of the box so the "off-by-default" only applies to envoy-based proxies.

  ([Issue #53596](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53596))

- **Updated** the `PILOT_SEND_UNHEALTHY_ENDPOINTS` feature (which is off by default) to not include terminating endpoints.
This ensures a service is not considered unhealthy during scale down or rollout events.

- **Updated** randomly select which upstreams to forward DNS requests to  ([Issue #53414](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53414))

> - **Added** new istiod environment variable `PILOT_DNS_JITTER_DURATION` that sets jitter for periodic DNS resolution.
> See `dns_jitter` in `https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/cluster/v3/cluster.proto`.
>   ([Issue #52877](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52877))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** new istiod environment variable `PILOT_DNS_JITTER_DURATION` that sets jitter for periodic DNS resolution.
  See `dns_jitter` in `https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/cluster/v3/cluster.proto`.
  ([Issue #52877](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52877))
```

> - **Added** `ambient.reconcileIptablesOnStartup` field in the `istio-cni` chart and the corresponding `AMBIENT_RECONCILE_POD_RULES_ON_STARTUP` flag
> to control whether the ambient CNI agent should reconcile the iptables of pods at startup.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

this is redundant with the below entry

Author: which entry? ObservedGeneration at L46?

Author: Fixed

> - **Added** Added ObservedGeneration to Ambient status conditions. This field will show the generation of the object that was observed by the controller when the condition was generated.
>   ([Issue #53331](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53331))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** `ObservedGeneration` to ambient status conditions. This field will show the generation of the object that was observed by the controller when the condition was generated.
  ([Issue #53331](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53331))
```

> - **Added** Istiod environment variable `PILOT_DNS_CARES_UDP_MAX_QUERIES` that controls the `udp_max_queries` field of Envoy's default Cares DNS resolver.
> This value defaults to 100 when unset.
> For more information, see https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/network/dns_resolver/cares/v3/cares_dns_resolver.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-network-dns-resolver-cares-v3-caresdnsresolverconfig-udp-max-queries
>   ([Issue #53577](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53577))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** environment variable `PILOT_DNS_CARES_UDP_MAX_QUERIES` to istiod that controls the `udp_max_queries` field of Envoy's default Cares DNS resolver. This value defaults to 100 when unset.
  For more information, see https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/network/dns_resolver/cares/v3/cares_dns_resolver.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-extensions-network-dns-resolver-cares-v3-caresdnsresolverconfig-udp-max-queries
  ([Issue #53577](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53577))
```

- **Added** Support for reconciling in-pod iptables rules of existing ambient pods from the previous version on `istio-cni` upgrade. Feature can be toggled with `--set cni.ambient.reconcileIptablesOnStartup=true` and will be enabled by default in future releases.
  ([Issue #1360](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/1360))

> - **Added** `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces` annotation, a comma separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic will be unconditionally treated as outbound. This allows workloads using virtualized networking (kubeVirt, VMs, docker-in-docker, etc) to function correctly with both sidecar and ambient mesh traffic capture.
> **Deprecated** `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces`, in favor of `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces`
>   ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces` annotation, a comma separated list of virtual interfaces whose inbound traffic will be unconditionally treated as outbound. This allows workloads using virtualized networking (kubeVirt, VMs, docker-in-docker, etc) to function correctly with both sidecar and ambient mesh traffic capture.

- **Deprecated** `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/kubevirtInterfaces` in favor of `istio.io/reroute-virtual-interfaces`.
  ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))
```

> - **Added** support for attaching policy defaults for istio-waypoint by targetting the GatewayClass.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for attaching policy defaults for istio-waypoint by targeting the GatewayClass.
```

Seems like this is probably my own typo

  ([Issue #54696](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54696))

> - **Added** `ambient.istio.io/dns-capture` annotation. May be unset, or set to `true` or `false`.
> When specified on a `Pod` enrolled in ambient mesh, controls whether DNS traffic (TCP and UDP on port 53) will be captured and proxied in ambient.
> This pod-level annotation, if present on a pod, will override the global `istio-cni` `AMBIENT_DNS_CAPTURE` setting, which as of 1.25 defaults to `true`.
> Note that setting this to `false` will break some Istio features, such as ServiceEntries and egress waypoints, but may be desirable for workloads that interact poorly with DNS proxies.
>   ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** `ambient.istio.io/dns-capture` annotation, which may be unset, or set to `true` or `false`.
  When specified on a `Pod` enrolled in ambient mesh, controls whether DNS traffic (TCP and UDP on port 53) will be captured and proxied in ambient.
  This pod-level annotation, if present on a pod, will override the global `istio-cni` `AMBIENT_DNS_CAPTURE` setting, which as of 1.25 defaults to `true`.
  Note: setting this to `false` will break some Istio features, such as `ServiceEntries` and egress waypoints, but may be desirable for workloads that interact poorly with DNS proxies.
  ([Issue #49829](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49829))
```

- **Added** support for configuring the `istio.io/ingress-use-waypoint` label at the namespace level.

- **Added** support to preserve the original case of HTTP/1.x headers.  ([Issue #53680](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53680))

- **Added** support for the `Service.spec.trafficDistribution` field and `networking.istio.io/traffic-distribution` annotation, allowing a simpler mechanism to make traffic prefer geographically close endpoints.
Note: this feature previously existed only for ztunnel, but is now supported across all data planes.

- **Fixed** a bug with mixed cases Hosts in Gateway and TLS redirect results in stale RDS.  ([Issue #49638](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49638))

- **Fixed** an issue where an HTTPRoute in a VirtualService with a matcher specifying sourceLabels would be applied to a waypoint.
  ([Issue #51565](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51565))

> - **Fixed** an issue where if a wasm image fetch fails, an allow all RBAC filter is used. Now if `failStrategy` is set to `FAIL_CLOSE`, a DENY-ALL RBAC filter will be used.  ([Issue #53279](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53279)),([Issue #23624](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23624))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where if a WASM image fetch fails, an allow all RBAC filter is used. Now if `failStrategy` is set to `FAIL_CLOSE`, a `DENY-ALL` RBAC filter will be used. 
  ([Issue #53279](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53279))
```

- **Fixed** waypoint proxy to respect trust domain.

- **Fixed** merging Duration with a envoyfilter can lead to all listeners associated attributes unexpectedly modified becasue all listeners share a same pointer typed `listener_filters_timeout`.

- **Fixed** errors being raised during cleanup of iptables rules that are conditional on the iptables configuration.

- **Fixed** DNS traffic (UDP and TCP) is now affected by traffic annotations like `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundIPRanges` and `traffic.sidecar.istio.io/excludeOutboundPorts`. Before, UDP/DNS traffic would uniquely ignore these traffic annotations, even if a DNS port was specified, because of the rule structure. The behavior change actually happened in the 1.23 release series, but was left out of the release notes for 1.23.
  ([Issue #53949](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53949))

- **Fixed** an issue where istiod did not handle RequestAuthentication correctly for cross-namespace waypoint proxies  ([Issue #54051](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54051))

> - **Fixed** failed to patch managed gateway/waypoint deployment during upgrade to 1.24.
>   ([Issue #54145](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54145))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue that caused patches to a managed gateway/waypoint deployment to fail during upgrade to 1.24.
  ([Issue #54145](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54145))
```

- **Fixed** non-default revisions controlling gateways lacking istio.io/rev labels.
  ([Issue #54280](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54280))

> - **Fixed** the wording of the status message when L7 rules are present in an AuthorizationPolicy which is bound to ztunnel to be clearer.
>   ([Issue #54334](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54334))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** the wording of the status message when L7 rules are present in an `AuthorizationPolicy` which is bound to ztunnel to be more clear.
  ([Issue #54334](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54334))
```

> - **Fixed** a bug where request mirror filter incorrectly computing the percentage.
>   ([Issue #54357](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54357))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a bug where request mirror filter incorrectly computed the percentage.
  ([Issue #54357](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54357))
```

> - **Fixed** an issue where using a tag in the istio.io/rev label on a gateway causes the gateway to be improperly programmed, and to lack status.
>   ([Issue #54458](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54458))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where using a tag in the `istio.io/rev` label on a gateway causes the gateway to be improperly programmed and to lack status.
  ([Issue #54458](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54458))
```

- **Fixed** issue where out-of-order ztunnel disconnects could put `istio-cni` in a state where it believes it has no connections.
  ([Issue #54544](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54544)),([Issue #53843](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53843))

> - **Fixed** excessive iptables info-level log entries for rule checks and deletions.
> Detailed logging can be re-enabled by switching to debug-level logs if necessary.
>   ([Issue #54644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54644))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** excessive iptables info-level log entries for rule checks and deletions.
  Detailed logging can be re-enabled by switching to debug-level logs, if necessary.
  ([Issue #54644](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54644))
```

- **Fixed** an issue causing `ExternalName` services failing to resolve when using Ambient mode and DNS proxying.

> - **Fixed** an issue causing configuration to be rejected when there is a partial overlap between IP addresses across multiple services.
> For example, a Service with `[IP-A]` and one with `[IP-B, IP-A]`.  ([Issue #52847](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52847))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue causing configuration to be rejected when there is a partial overlap between IP addresses across multiple services.
  For example, a Service with `[IP-A]` and one with `[IP-B, IP-A]`.
  ([Issue #52847](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52847))
```

- **Fixed** an issue causing VirtualService header name validation to reject valid header names.

- **Fixed** an issue when upgrading waypoint proxies from Istio 1.23.x to Istio 1.24.x.
  ([Issue #53883](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53883))

## Security

> - **Added** the `DAC_OVERRIDE` capability to the `istio-cni-node` DaemonSet. This fixes issues when running in environments
> where certain files are owned by non-root users.
> Note: prior to Istio 1.24, the `istio-cni-node` ran as `privileged`. Istio 1.24 removed this, but removed some required
> privileges which are now added back. Relatively to Istio 1.23, `istio-cni-node` still has fewer privileges than it does with this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the `DAC_OVERRIDE` capability to the `istio-cni-node` `DaemonSet`. This fixes issues when running in environments
  where certain files are owned by non-root users.
  Note: prior to Istio 1.24, the `istio-cni-node` ran as `privileged`. Istio 1.24 removed this, but removed some required
  privileges which are now added back. Relatively to Istio 1.23, `istio-cni-node` still has fewer privileges than it does with this change.
```

> - **Added** unconfined AppArmor annotation to the istio-cni-node DaemonSet to avoid conflicts with
> AppArmor profiles which block certain privileged pod capabilities. Previously, AppArmor
> (when enabled) was bypassed for the istio-cni-node DaemonSet since privileged was set to true
> in the SecurityContext. This change ensures that the AppArmor profile is set to unconfined
> for the istio-cni-node DaemonSet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** unconfined AppArmor annotation to the `istio-cni-node` `DaemonSet` to avoid conflicts with
  AppArmor profiles which block certain privileged pod capabilities. Previously, AppArmor
  (when enabled) was bypassed for the `istio-cni-node` `DaemonSet` since privileged was set to true
  in the `SecurityContext`. This change ensures that the AppArmor profile is set to unconfined
  for the `istio-cni-node` `DaemonSet`.
```

> - **Fixed** an issue where Ambient `PeerAuthentication` policies were overly strict.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where ambient `PeerAuthentication` policies were overly strict.
```

  ([Issue #53884](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53884))

> - **Fixed** Possible race conditions in JWK resolution cache for JWT policies that when triggered would cause
> cache misses & failures to update signing keys when rotated
>   ([Issue #52121](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52121))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a possible race conditions in JWK resolution cache for JWT policies that, when triggered, would cause
cache misses & failures to update signing keys when rotated.
  ([Issue #52121](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/52121))
```

> - **Fixed** a bug in Ambient (only) where multiple STRICT port-level mTLS rules in a PeerAuthentication policy would effectively result
> in a permissive policy due to incorrect evaluation logic (AND vs. OR).
>   ([Issue #54146](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54146))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a bug in ambient (only) where multiple `STRICT` port-level mTLS rules in a `PeerAuthentication` policy would effectively result
  in a permissive policy due to incorrect evaluation logic (`AND` vs. `OR`).
  ([Issue #54146](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54146))
```

- **Fixed** an issue where ingress gateways did not use WDS discovery to retrieve metadata for ambient destinations.

## Telemetry

- **Added** support for additional labels exchange for telemetry in sidecar mode.
  ([Issue #54000](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54000))

- **Added** a new `service.istio.io/workload-name` label that can be added to a `Pod` or `WorkloadEntry` to override the "workload name" reported in telemetry.

- **Added** a fallback to use the `WorkloadGroup` name as the "workload name" (as reported in telemetry) for `WorkloadEntry`s created by a `WorkloadGroup`.

> - **Fixed** $(HOST_IP) interpolation causes istio-proxy failures when datadog tracing enabled on IPv6 clusters.
>   ([Issue #54267](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54267))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** `$(HOST_IP)` interpolation that caused `istio-proxy` failures when Datadog tracing was enabled on IPv6 clusters.
  ([Issue #54267](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54267))
```

> - **Fixed** an issue that access log order instability causing connection draining.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where access log order instability caused connection draining.
```

  ([Issue #54672](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54672))

> - **Fixed** an issue where many panels in the Grafana dashboards showed **No data** if Prometheus had a scrape
> interval configured to be larger than `15s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where many panels in the Grafana dashboards showed **No data** if Prometheus had a scrape
  interval configured to be larger than `15s`.
```

 ([Background information]( https://grafana.com/blog/2020/09/28/new-in-grafana-7.2-__rate_interval-for-prometheus-rate-queries-that-just-work/))([Usage]( https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/using-istio-dashboard/))

> - **Removed** OpenCensus support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed** OpenCensus support.
```

## Installation

> - **Improved** Both `platform` and `profile` Helm values overrides now equivalently support
> global or local override forms, e.g.
>   - `--set global.platform=foo`
>   - `--set platform=foo`
>   - `--set global.profile=bar`
>   - `--set profile=bar`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** both `platform` and `profile` Helm values overrides to now equivalently support
  global or local override forms, e.g.:
  - `--set global.platform=foo`
  - `--set platform=foo`
  - `--set global.profile=bar`
  - `--set profile=bar`
```

> - **Improved** the ztunnel Helm chart to set resource names to `.Release.Name` instead of hard-coded to ztunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** the ztunnel Helm chart to set resource names to `.Release.Name` instead of being hard-coded to ztunnel.
```

> - **Added** new messages to the WaypointBound condition to represent a service binding to a waypoint proxy for ingress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** new messages to the `WaypointBound` condition to represent a service binding to a waypoint proxy for ingress.
```

- **Added** an issue that `istioctl install` not working on windows.

- **Added** a pod `dnsPolicy` of ClusterFirstWithHostNet to `istio-cni` when it runs with `hostNetwork=true` (i.e. ambient mode).

- **Added** GKE platform profile for ambient mode. When installing on GKE, use `--set global.platform=gke` (Helm) or `--set values.global.platform=gke` (istioctl) to apply GKE-specific value overrides. This replaces the previous GKE autodetection based on K8S version used in the `istio-cni` chart.

- **Added** support for Envoy config parameter to skip deprecated logs, with the default set to true. Setting the ENVOY_SKIP_DEPRECATED_LOGS environment variable to false will enable deprecated logs.

- **Added** ambient dataplane exclusion labels to Istio-shipped gateways by default, to avoid out-of-the-box confusing behavior if installing gateways outside of `istio-system`.
  ([Issue #54824](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54824))

> - **Fixed** an issue where ipset entry creation would fail on certain kinds of Docker-based kubernetes nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where ipset entry creation would fail on certain kinds of Docker-based kubernetes nodes.
```

  ([Issue #53512](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53512))

> - **Fixed** Helm render to properly apply annotations on pilot `serviceAccount`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** Helm render to properly apply annotations on pilot `serviceAccount`.
```

  ([Issue #51289](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/51289))

> - **Fixed** a issue where `includeInboundPorts: ""` could not work when istio-CNI is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a issue where `includeInboundPorts: ""` not working when `istio-cni` is enabled.
```

  ([Issue #54288](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54288))

- **Fixed** an issue where the CNI installation left temporary files when a container was repeatedly killed during the binary copy, which could have filled the storage space.
  ([Issue #54311](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54311))

- **Fixed** an issue in the gateway chart where `--set platform` worked but `--set global.platform` did not.

> - **Fixed** an issue that `gateway` injection template didn't respect the `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-logs-container`
> and `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-container` annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where  `gateway` injection template did not respect the `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-logs-container`
  and `kubectl.kubernetes.io/default-container` annotations.
```

- **Fixed** an issue causing istio-iptables cmd to fail when a non-built-in table is present in the system.

> - **Fixed** an issue preventing the PodDisruptionBudget `maxUnavailable` field from being customizable.
>   ([Issue #54087](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54087))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue that prevented the `PodDisruptionBudget` `maxUnavailable` field from being customizable.
  ([Issue #54087](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54087))
```

> - **Fixed** Injection config errors were being silenced (i.e. logged and not returned) when the sidecar injector was unable to process the sidecar config. This change will now propagate the error to the user instead of continuing to process a faulty config.  ([Issue #53357](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53357))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where injection configuration errors were being silenced (i.e. logged and not returned) when the sidecar injector was unable to process the sidecar config. This change will now propagate the error to the user instead of continuing to process a faulty config.
  ([Issue #53357](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53357))
```

## istioctl

> - **Improved** output of `istioctl pc secret` to display trust bundles provided by SPIRE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** the output of `istioctl proxy-config secret` to display trust bundles provided by Spire.
```

> - **Added** shortcode `-r` for `--revision` flags in `istioctl analyze`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** alias `-r` for `--revision` flags in `istioctl analyze`.
```

> - **Added** support for AuthorizationPolicies with `CUSTOM` action in the `istioct x authz check` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for `CUSTOM` actions in `AuthorizationPolicy` configurations to the `istioct experimental authz check` command.
```

> - **Added** support `--network` parameter for `istioctl experimental workload group create`.
>   ([Issue #54022](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54022))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for the `--network` parameter to the `istioctl experimental workload group create` command.
  ([Issue #54022](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54022))
```

- **Added** Ability to safely restart/upgrade the system-node-critical `istio-cni` node agent Daemonset in-place. This works by preventing new pods from starting on the node while `istio-cni` is being restarted or upgraded. This feature is enabled by default and can be disabled by setting the environment variable `AMBIENT_DISABLE_SAFE_UPGRADE=true` in `istio-cni`.
  ([Issue #49009](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49009))

> - **Added** changes for rootca-compare command to handle the case when pod has multiple root CA  ([Issue #54545](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54545))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Added** support for `istioctl waypoint delete` to delete specified revision waypoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for `istioctl waypoint delete` to delete specified revision waypoints.
```

- **Added** analyzer to report negative status conditions on select Istio and Kubernetes Gateway-API resources.
  ([Issue #55055](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/55055))

> - **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl install` deadlocks if multiple ingress gateways are specified in the IstioOperator file
>   ([Issue #53875](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53875))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue in the `rootca-compare` command to handle the case when a pod has multiple root CAs.  ([Issue #54545](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54545))

- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl install` deadlocks if multiple ingress gateways are specified in the `IstioOperator` file.
  ([Issue #53875](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53875))
```

> - **Fixed** `istioctl pc secret` performance issue.
>   ([Issue #53931](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53931))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Moved to improve

- **Fixed** `istioctl waypoint delete --all` deletes gateway resources that are not waypoints.
  ([Issue #54056](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54056))

> - **Fixed** `istioctl experimental injector list` print redundant namespaces for injector webook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where `istioctl experimental injector list` would print redundant namespaces for injector webhooks.
```

> - **Fixed** `istioctl proxyconfig` performance issue.
>   ([Issue #53931](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/53931))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Fixed** 'istioctl analyze' reports IST0145 error when using the same host with different ports and multiple gateways.  ([Issue #54643](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54643))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** `istioctl analyze` reporting `IST0145` errors when using the same host with different ports and multiple gateways.
  ([Issue #54643](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/54643))
```

- **Fixed** 'istioctl --as' implicitly sets `--as-group=""` when `--as` is used without `--as-group`.

> - **Removed** `--recursive` flags and hardcode recursion to ture for `istioctl analyze`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed** `--recursive` flags and hardcoded recursion to `true` for `istioctl analyze`.
```

> - **Removed**  the experimental flag `--xds-via-agents` to the `istioctl proxy-status` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Removed**  the experimental flag `--xds-via-agents` from the `istioctl proxy-status` command.
```
